Rastercapstones (#13)
UW-Madison-DataScience/geospatial-capstone: _episodes_rmd/03-day2.Rmd

---
title: "Day 2: Introduction to Raster Data"
exercises: 5
questions:

> - "What is the coordinate reference system for the maximum temperature raster? Is it the same as the coordinate reference system for the minimum temperature raster? Visually explore the patterns in minimum and maximum monthly temperature differs across Wisconsin.  Reproject the maxtemp raster into UTM coordinates"

Reviewer: Maybe the visually explore and reproject statements should go in the objectives?

objectives:
- "Importing raster data; checking coordinate reference system; converting crs"
keypoints:

> - "Always explore your raster first using the summary() and crs() functions. To plot your raster with ggplot(), first convert your raster to a data frame using the as.data.frame() function and specify the argument xy=TRUE. You may need to reproject your raster, for which you can use the projectRaster() function. There are many plotting and aesthetics options in the ggplot2 package for you to explore."

Reviewer: Think you should split these into more than one key point.
```suggestion
- "Always explore your raster first using the summary() and crs() functions."
- "To plot your raster with ggplot(), first convert your raster to a data frame using the as.data.frame() function and specify the argument xy=TRUE."
- "You may need to reproject your raster, for which you can use the projectRaster() function."
- "There are many plotting and aesthetics options in the ggplot2 package for you to explore."

```

---

```{r setup, include=FALSE}
knitr::opts_chunk$set(echo = TRUE)
source("../bin/chunk-options.R")
knitr_fig_path("03-")
```

> ## 1) Load in the maximum and minimum temperature rasters  for Wisconsin using the `raster()` function and explore using the `summary()` function.

Reviewer: Maybe make this a shorter title and then use the full text below?  Example suggestion below.  Feel free to ignore or change as you prefer.

```suggestion
## 1 - Load and summarize

Practice the first steps of using data by loading in the maximum and minimum temperature rasters  for Wisconsin using the `raster()` function and then exploring using the `summary()` function.
```

> ## Solution
> ```{r, eval=TRUE}
> library(raster)
> library(ggplot2)
> library(rgdal)
> mintemp <- raster("../data/mintemp_monthcold_wi.tif")
> summary(mintemp)
> maxtemp <- raster("../data/maxtemp_monthwarm_wi.tif")
> summary(maxtemp)
> ```
{: .solution}

## 2) Use the `crs()` function to check if the coordinate reference systems the same in these two rasters?

> ## Solution
> ```{r, eval=TRUE}
> mintemp
> maxtemp
> ```
> OR
> 
> ```{r, eval=TRUE}
> crs(mintemp)
> crs(maxtemp)
> ```
> 
> Yes, the CRS for both rasters is the same. Both are in longlat projection, datum WGS84.
{: .solution}

## 3) Create visualizations of both minimum and maximum temperature rasters using the `ggplot2` package.

> ## Solution
> ```{r, eval=TRUE}
> mintemp_df <- as.data.frame(mintemp, xy=TRUE)
> maxtemp_df <- as.data.frame(maxtemp, xy=TRUE)
> 
> ggplot() +
>    geom_raster(data = mintemp_df , aes(x = x, y = y, fill = mintemp_monthcold_wi)) +
>    scale_fill_viridis_c() +
>    coord_quickmap()
>
> ggplot() +
>    geom_raster(data = maxtemp_df , aes(x = x, y = y, fill = maxtemp_monthwarm_wi)) +
>    scale_fill_viridis_c() +

> >    coord_quickmap()

Reviewer: I think you might want to split up the ggplot code chunks here.  I'm betting it will better disply which plot goes with which code chunk if they are separate code chunks.
